= EdgeCase Ruby Koans

Os Ruby koans guiam você através do caminho para a iluminação com o próposito de aprender Ruby.
O objetivo é aprender a linguagem Ruby, a sintaxe, a estrutura e algumas funções e bibliotecas comuns.
Também lhe ensinaresmos cultura. Testar não é algo que apenas falamos, mas que vivemos.
É essencial que na sua jornada você aprenda e faça boas coisas na linguagem.

== A Estrutura

Os Koans estão divididos em áreas por arquivo, hashes (dicionários) são cobertos em about_hashes.rb,
módulos são apresentados em about_modules.rb, etc. Eles são apresentados na ordem do arquivo path_to_enlightenment.

Cada koan aumenta seu conhecimento de Ruby e depende de si próprio. Ele irá parar no primeiro local que você precisa
corrigir.


Alguns koans simplesmente precisam que você substitua uma resposta correta por uma incorreta.
Outros, entretanto, precisam que você dê sua resposta. Se você ver o método +__+(um underscore duplo)
listado, é uma dica que você deve colocar seu próprio código no lugar dos underscores para fazer o teste
funcionar corretamente.

== Installing Ruby

Se você não tem o Ruby instalado, viste http://ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/ para instruções específicas de operação.
Para executar os ruby koans você precisa do ruby e do rake instalados.


Para checar a instalação digite isso:

plataformas *nix (GNU/Linux, Mac OSX) de qualquer janela de um terminal:

   [~] $ ruby --version
   [~] $ rake --version

Windows do prompt de comando (cmd.exe)

   c:\ruby --version
   c:\rake --version

Qualquer resposta do Ruby com um número de versão maior que 1.8 está bom (deve ser 1.8.6 ou maior).
Qualquer versão do Rake servirá.

== O Caminho para a Iluminação

You can run the tests through rake or by calling the file itself (rake is the
recommended way to run them as we might build more functionality into this task).

*nix platforms, from the koans directory

    [ruby_koans] $ rake                           # runs the default target :walk_the_path
    [ruby_koans] $ ruby path_to_enlightenment.rb  # simply call the file directly

Windows is the same thing

    c:\ruby_koans\rake                             # runs the default target :walk_the_path
    c:\ruby_koans\ruby path_to_enlightenment.rb    # simply call the file directly

=== Red, Green, Refactor

In test-driven development the mantra has always been, red, green, refactor.  Write a
failing test and run it (red), make the test pass (green), then refactor it (that is
look at the code and see if you can make it any better.  In this case you will need
to run the koan and see it fail (red), make the test pass (green), then take a
moment and reflect upon the test to see what it is teaching you and improve the
code to better communicate its intent (refactor).

The very first time you run it you will see the following output:

    [ ruby_koans ] $ rake
    (in /Users/person/dev/ruby_koans)
    cd koans

    Thinking AboutAsserts
      test_assert_truth has damaged your karma.

    You have not yet reached enlightenment ...
    <false> is not true.

    Please meditate on the following code:
    ./about_asserts.rb:10:in `test_assert_truth'
    path_to_enlightenment.rb:27

    mountains are merely mountains

You have come to your first stage. If you notice it is telling you where to look for
the first solution:

    Please meditate on the following code:
    ./about_asserts.rb:10:in `test_assert_truth'
    path_to_enlightenment.rb:27

We then open up the about_asserts.rb file and look at the first test:

    # We shall contemplate truth by testing reality, via asserts.
    def test_assert_truth
      assert false                # This should be true
    end

We then change the +false+ to +true+ and run the test again.  After you are
done, think about what you are learning.  In this case, ignore everything except
the method name (+test_assert_truth+) and the parts inside the method (everything
before the +end+).

In this case the goal is for you to see that if you pass a value to the +assert+
method, it will either ensure it is +true+ and continue on, or fail if in fact
the statement is +false+.

== Inspiration

A special thanks to Mike Clark and Ara Howard for inspiring this
project.  Mike Clark wrote an excellent blog post about learning Ruby
through unit testing. This sparked an idea that has taken a bit to
solidify, that of bringing new rubyists into the community through
testing. Ara Howard then gave us the idea for the Koans in his ruby
quiz entry on Meta Koans (a must for any rubyist wanting to improve
their skills).  Also, "The Little Lisper" taught us all the value of
the short questions/simple answers style of learning.

Mike Clark's post ::  http://www.clarkware.com/cgi/blosxom/2005/03/18
Meta Koans        ::  http://rubyquiz.com/quiz67.html
The Little Lisper ::  http://www.amazon.com/Little-LISPer-Third-Daniel-Friedman/dp/0023397632

== Other Resources

The Ruby Language               ::  http://ruby-lang.org
Try Ruby in your browser        ::  http://tryruby.org

Dave Thomas' introduction to Ruby Programming Ruby (the Pick Axe) ::  http://pragprog.com/titles/ruby/programming-ruby

Brian Marick's fantastic guide for beginners Everyday Scripting with Ruby    ::  http://pragprog.com/titles/bmsft/everyday-scripting-with-ruby

= Other stuff

Author         ::   Jim Weirich <jim@weirichhouse.org>
Author         ::   Joe O'Brien <joe@edgecase.com>
Issue Tracker  :: http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/48111
Requires       :: Ruby 1.8.x or later and Rake (any recent version)
